# André Walker - Curriculum Vitae

I'm an experienced software developer, passionate about programming since I was
13. I'm self-taught, zealous about code quality while also being pragmatic.

In my current job at Booking.com, I have lead and implemented projects to
improve the development experience of hundreds of developers.

I am engaged in Open Source, with an active GitHub profile, having contributed
to a variety of libraries and tools. I attend and occasionally speak at local
technical events and conferences.

## Work Experience

### Lead Developer - Booking.com **(September 2015 - present)**

I was one of the creators of an internal framework which simplified the
creation and maintenance of back-office applications and services. I designed
its DSL, introduced tests to it (which wasn't in the company's culture at the
time), and implemented many of its features. It was used by about 200
applications, serving hundreds of millions of requests per day. I implemented
integrations with Kubernetes, setting up the base images and templating
kubernetes configurations with Helm. I lead an initiative to restructure the
legacy codebase, along with principal developers and several stakeholders, to
accelerate the move to services and improve developer experience. To that end,
I implemented Bazel rules for Perl and internal Booking systems, and the first
draft was public on GitHub.

### Software Developer - Estante Virtual **(January 2014 - July 2015)**

Estante Virtual is a Brazilian e-commerce with the largest collection of used
books in the country. Most of my work was on the shopping cart and processing
payments, and I was responsible for integrating with a new payment gateway.

### Google Summer of Code **(May 2011 - August 2011)**

My project was "Rework Catalyst component setup code". The goal was to use
Inversion of Control to make the configuration of the components more flexible
and powerful in the Catalyst MVC framework. I learned a lot about how to write
better tests and the importance of back-compatibility, with the help of my
mentors and other developers in the project.

## Skills

I have a lot of experience with Perl, having worked on frameworks and
infrastructure libraries for most of my career so far. Even if the language
itself is in decline, the pragmatism I learned from it has really been
valuable. While I am mostly a back-end developer, I have written and
maintained JavaScript code, as well as other front-end languages such as
Typescript. In my free time I have also built websites with Elm, which I found
extremely expressive and engaging, but challenging.

During my 3 years of technical secondary school and 4 years of university, I
wrote a large amount of C, Java and even some Assembly. I have also
experimented with Haskell and OCaml in my free time, and I love the strict
typing and elegant solutions they provide.

I have written a good amount of rules for Bazel. I find it an invaluable tool,
and I hope it keeps gaining popularity. I have a good understanding of
Kubernetes and Docker. I feel comfortable deploying and debugging containerized
applications, and tweaking Kubernetes configurations.

I have used extensively both MySQL and PostgreSQL for personal and commercial
projects. I also had contact with Oracle and MS SQL Server in university. I
use Linux exclusively for my personal computer and servers for over 15 years.
I set up numerous servers for serving HTTP traffic and mail servers, and I have
familiarity with AWS.

## Education

 - Bachelor in Computer Science, UFSCar - University of São Carlos - 2014
 - Technical degree in Informatics, COTUCA - Technical High School of Campinas - 2009
